[Music]
everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is former NFL star and
American Ninja Warrior
Anthony trucks his journey to becoming a
star athlete though is a crazy one he
was given up to foster care at the age
of three endured beatings starvation and
forms of torture but he was ultimately
adopted and raised as the only black
person in a loving albeit poor all-white
family he struggled to find his way
through high school but found sports but
also became a teen parent then married
his high school sweetheart found his
biological father at 21 but then had his
NFL career cut tragically short by a
devastating injury but he then started a
business but it almost failed had twins
at 25 but discovered his wife was having
an affair got a divorce lost his
adoptive mother and father contemplated
suicide but didn't bounce back remarried
his ex-wife and took what he had learned
from his previous business and has now
created a new and thriving business
called modified entity teaching others
how to navigate the crazy shifts that we
all have to learn how to deal with
Anthony welcome to the show dude dude
your journey is insane it's insane like
legitimately especially the stuff in
your early life is is really crazy
you use the word torture that is that is
so hard to deal with you and I know each
other
I've seen you off-camera a lot you are
so light and loving how the hell is that
true
given what you've been through man
that's a question I'm trying to figure
out every day I think which is beautiful
cuz it's part of my work right but if I
go back to the roots of that I think
it's because I know what could have been
in my life it's pushed in a place to
everyday be grateful like I have three
kids now right ones 15 I get 10 old
twins and it still amazes me that
they're in my home with me as long as it
may seem for a lot of people like that's
a unique aspect and so wrong give me
clarity on that what do you mean that
they're in your home with you that it's
not a broken family not that's a broken
family but my norm I Soledad's daughter
I was like hugging her and you'll plant
like I told my wife I said I will
never know what it's like to have that
warmth from my father like I'll never
like I'm so close to them yet so
emotionally distant from their
experience and so for me it's like I'm
presently aware of the world I live in
and and I always choose like I know it's
a place I'd look at statistics any
prison in America 75% of the inmates are
former foster kids 50% of the homeless
population former Frost kids like 1% of
us graduate college so statistically I
know I'm not supposed to have done you
know anything I'm doing we'll call it on
paper and so I'm presently aware of like
man this is my real life like everyday
ah this is great like I do it and I have
ups and downs man obviously there's a
lot that are within that but then I also
realize that a lot of my anger was was
cared because of what people had done to
me right with my mom it did to me my dad
not being present my wife having an
affair like all these things and then I
got to a point where as I got older I
realized unfortunate a lot of people
weren't given tools to work through life
well so I got to the point of having a
true forgiveness when I realized that
the actions they took weren't malicious
to hurt me it was like they just were
doing the best they could and I happened
to be affected negatively that gave me a
lot of release and I've been like a
joyous person ever since man I'm just a
happy guy that's interesting and I'd
love to paint the picture because I
think it would be easy and if I'm really
honest dude my initial inclination was
to just assume that you had a naturally
positive disposition but when I heard
you talk about actually no when I was
growing up I was I was angry and there
was a Russian I don't know how much you
and I have talked about this by the way
so I worked with a kid that was in
foster care so my audience has probably
heard the story too many times so I'll
give it to you really fast but I to get
extra credit in college I went to USC
which is in the middle of the inner-city
South Central Los Angeles just one of
the worst school districts in the
country a terrible neighborhood and so
of course they give you the most
problematic child and when you had
talked about being one of those
problematic kids I was like whoa I know
what that looks like up close
this kid was tiny but he was so
aggressive and he would just go punch
people for no reason which for me was
like I having grown up in a loving home
not having had much interaction with
people that had been in foster care
previous to that it was so startling to
me
so I was that kid man I was that I mean
six grand I got in 16 fights in the
sixth grade I didn't it didn't really I
wasn't allowed to go to summer camp
because I was a flight risk like I was a
problem wasn't in trouble at the time
like we just don't want this guy in the
woods because we don't know what could
take place so I was that kid man I just
I had a lot of pent-up anger and what's
even worse is throughout the system I
was never allowed to actually play any
sports until his 14 because my real mom
had what's called parental rights so she
can make decisions on whether and I did
things even though she's in foster care
exactly so she didn't live there but she
was she's also just a pathological liar
a little bit mentally not there and so
she would make up these excuses at one
point she blamed my foster parents for
me being in foster care it's a very
weird dynamic so my life for a lot of
years was a lot of weird back and forth
emotional issues with her and what she
would lie about like she wouldn't go to
visitation she's making excuses I had a
lot of energy there and then I didn't
like a fit because of how I looked in my
household or at school and so I had that
same energy man it was just this really
it's a dark cloud like it just it covers
all vase of your life and you get used
to it it's almost a normalcy inside of
that craziness sucks
now when you say it's a dark cloud
what's the it being the outsider not
feeling like you fit in or what do you
mean the emot-- bagent every day waking
up feeling like you're like in just cold
water all day like just discomfort
because I didn't have I didn't have like
a home my three siblings I didn't know
where they were at my real mom was just
she's gone so she'd do things like you
know pack a bag wait by the window I'll
be there eight o'clock to pick you up
and as a foster kid all you want to do
is go back with your family whether or
not they're good or not and so I sit
there and cry myself to sleep every
night when she would do this I'd wet the
belt like with no like Missy I always
went to bed that night so I could 14
years old I'm still wetting the bed
every night she'd do this so I just had
this this dark emotional cloud of like
never feeling comfort just like I got
bathed in a Crazy's what I tell people
because you just you go through the days
of just knowing like this doesn't feel
good but you get used to it and that's
where you're asking how do you have joy
like I still know what that feeling is
like so the fact that I'm not there it's
like oh I feel so much better yeah that
that's interesting and it's interesting
to me that it came from a realization
that they were doing the best that they
could
I think that people break into sort of
two camps one you have all right people
have done me wrong and so I want to see
them punished for that and then you have
people who are like alright that that
isn't going to serve me pursuing that
it's not even about them like I'm not
the one of the coolest things that I
heard I don't remember I heard this and
I'm gonna paraphrase but like that
forgiveness isn't about the other person
is about you right helps um and how old
were you when you when that clicked for
you 32
oh [__] so this is recent oh yeah man it
I'm like so wait did I so I just
happened to meet you after you had made
this switch yeah a couple years after oh
yeah yeah sure now we have to get into
some really interesting [__] how much of
what you've accomplished as an athlete
is really [__] extraordinary and I've
heard you talk about putting a chip on
your shoulder this is something that I
talk to people a lot about is what I
call the advanced class so the the basic
[__] is work hard be diligent
do your thing know why you're doing it
right focus on the light side and I and
I really do think people should spend
eighty percent of the time you have soft
stuff people should spend eighty percent
of their time there it's it's far more
beautiful it lifts you up it's elevating
mm-hm
but when I think Anthony about the times
where I like what was it that separated
me from people who were smarter than me
or that had more of a leg up than me it
was dude I had a chip on my shoulder I
was not prepared to let people be right
about me all the people that doubted me
all the people that thought that I was
just gonna marshmallow my way through
life like that I really like was [__]
that I'm going to do something I'm gonna
do something extraordinary and it was it
was in the hardest times that I would
rely on this sort of the element of like
a dark energy and I'm curious to know
how much of that propelled you to
greatness them in a heavy amount of it
because it's this kind like you said
right there's the the ass but that all
feels good and I'm driving for this
stuff you can put on paper but it's it's
different when you have those moments
and it's a statement of my work I say
it's what you create creates you and
when I was 15 I pretty much checked out
like it 14 15 is like I suck at football
my mom died diagnosed with MS before I
lost her you know 17 years later my
older brother went to the military and I
chalked it up and I was done
and I remember this girl in mr. house
English class made this statement and a
statement was was simple but to me was
powerful she said
the reason I'm so bad because I'm in
foster care and it wasn't anything more
than her saying an excuse out loud that
I had been saying inside and I just
heard like it sounds stupid like that's
any excuse because I had no control of
the situation but that directs my life
to be a criminal to be checked out and
so I had this desire like I'm just gonna
do what great people do and it was
players right great athletes want to be
a football player so this is where this
chips are becoming and getting built I
spent like every single day like I said
my back to a football near 500 times I
ran every route I could I lift every
whit I could no idea what I was doing
but every day I got to this point where
like I stacked in stacked in stacked to
were like when I showed up the next year
Tom you couldn't take this from me like
you're not gonna catch this ball this is
my ball to catch you're not gonna catch
it I'm gonna knock it down
you're not gonna attack him you don't
deserve this today I'm gonna tackle you
because you don't get to don't get the
right to run away from me it was just
this the sense of like I earned this I
own this you don't get to take this from
me and that's what that darkness kind of
picked peaked in but I you can't have
that until you do that dark work and I
think people want to get there and be
like I did a couple things like nah nah
nah like it ain't about a couple thing
is about this deeply seated rooted sense
of you where you do not have the right
to take this future from me and so that
became that's a driver for me if
everyday like I wasn't at 25 in when I
was you know the NFL I wasn't playing
because they before us playing because
of ten years earlier like a know I did
this work bro you'll get to make this
tackle on me you know you don't get to
get you know like you don't get to block
me today and that's this this this
compounding effect over time they just
built this I have that still I people
think like I'll he's happy and I'm happy
guy don't get it twisted though man when
it comes to work there's like that
switch that has to flip on but that's
where it does come from that dark you
have to pull from the things that
motivations not always a joy a spot for
me sometimes it's looking at my kids and
realizing like then I could have a way
worse or looking at like my past and say
you know and I and this is truth for me
at this age of my life I'm very aware
that I I want to be desired I want to be
wanted but the thing is it's because of
a childhood thing my mom didn't want me
like you know my mom didn't care for me
and so because of that when I show up
now it's like I do these things but I'm
doing it because I'm serving people to
get the thank-yous that make me feel
desired so it's a weird
I call it weird sense of selfishness
like I selfish they want
thank you I want you to say I appreciate
you in thank you but I only get that
when I show up big and heavy to serve
you and that serpent is it always from
joy man it's nervous from like I don't
want to get off this planet and and you
have a drip drop left in me do that that
is that's some deep [__] so I don't know
how much you've looked into Buddhism I
have a very conflicted relationship with
it and I want to be very clear I have a
surface level understanding of Buddhism
I do not claim to have like some deep
theological or spiritual understanding
of Buddhism but I went into Eastern
religion really hard as a teenager and
in my early 20s I self-identified as a
Taoist for a while that just there was
something about the way that they
approach the world that I found very
compelling which was all an echo of Yoda
for me which was sort of how I got
obsessed with that ideology and one of
the things though that always made me
stop short of really embracing Buddhism
was the sense of trying to transcend the
mud of the human existence and I
wondered I now I can put the words to it
how much of this was really conscious in
my mind in my early 20s I won't speak
too but now looking back I realize the
energy that you get from [__] that I'm
not leaving life without having spent
everything is the thing that made me
look at all suffering is born of desire
I'm actually willing to embrace that
right the the whole Buddhist notion that
merely wanting something is what causes
the pain when you're unable to achieve
it and when you achieve that you're
always gonna want to achieve the next
thing and so it becomes this sort of
vicious cycle but it also means that I
am I am bringing my will to the table
and what I will define as the the entire
meaning of life is to see how much of
your potential you can turn into actual
usable tangible skill set right which to
me is what your journey has really been
about is like I'm actually I have all
this raw potential as this skinny kid
because I'm sure people just assume that
you're naturally built like a truck but
of course you were not and you put all
this time and energy into getting faster
stronger tougher and that equates to you
know a career that only a few hundred
people at any one time are able to have
in the NFL so it's it's you know this
really a
ordinary transition of potential to
actual ability and I found that if I
didn't want something with an almost
uncomfortable level of obsessive desire
I didn't push myself hard another wall
all the way there
so I was able to look at Buddhism ago I
get it I agree with you that the
suffering is coming from my desire to be
something more than I am to have more
than what I have that also the cool [__]
in my life comes from just knowingly
bathing in that like the desire and how
it fills you it's a different driving
you know what it is I think a lot of
people genuinely are scared of that like
I don't think this separator for a lot
of people is what the work I do now it's
not the tools and techniques it's like
is the technician sound can the
technician dive into those waters and
that people hear it all day long like
all you got to work harder do crazy
stuff but like because of Maya bringing
in like being comfortable and that will
call that darkness and then in football
you're bathed and discomfort every play
like you're just every play at someone
running at you they want to hit you as
hard as they can
after a while it's like you find a sense
of ease within it and so like you're
talking about if it doesn't make me
uncomfortable to the point of like I got
a pull on that I feel uncomfortable it's
a weird level so where most people have
discomfort I find a grace in a comfort I
do I like it it's weird and it's it's
like lo and behold they're successful
it's not an accident it's like I spent
more time where you don't want to go but
when you can go to that place and get
used to it and get comfortable with it
it's like your demons become your assets
they come of your allies and it doesn't
have to always be bad I'm not coming out
of the world and being mean or negative
when I do it sometimes me sitting back
like showing up like I got I got to work
my tail off today I got a sharpie when
I'm tired I'm on a road trip right now
I'm gonna show up for people still right
like there's a sense of push but it's
not it's not this thing where you can
always be comfortable I had so you know
I had an arguably my wife yesterday
navigating this whole thing here but
like I'm good with it like because I
know I know this is where I get to show
off the best right and so when people
are trying to seek that comfort at all
times to get the success you're
automatically set yourself up for
failure try to find the things that make
you incredibly uncomfortable and get
normalized to it that yeah I think
there's a
power in that one thing that I am
curious about is why do you think that
when you have this hurt or anger or
sense of rejection that it manifests as
anger or aggression
it seems pretty universal and even when
you put it in context of what's
happening right now with people lashing
out between peaceful protests versus
rioting versus looting like I mean there
is there is definitely a sense of like
yo if you if you ask people to hold that
in long enough it will manifest as
aggression it will manifest as violence
why why is that the manifestation I
think cuz there's no way to logically
get it out well first off usually what
happens is when people do things to you
you're not okay with it so logically I'm
not gonna do some to you I'm not already
okay with you doing to me right so I
can't do that back to you but I'm hurt
so I want you to hurt so how do I hurt
you like I have to I I do bottle and
when I go out I just I think it's that
concept of with emotions high
intelligence is low so I think even it's
to society right now everyone's crazy
emotional there's this emotional peak
and I don't think people have any logic
except for go to that baseline the heed
which is like what's my desire right now
and my desire is just a do blank and I
take off and do it and I think about it
later like what's like if you're out
with your wife you say something you're
like oh sorry I didn't mean that I was
just angry
we're not we're emotional we're not
thinking logically and so I think we get
to the point of having these things
happen and I did eyeball it up and I
bottled up and it came out of me
punching people and hitting people
one is I didn't have the the
psychological tools to communicate to
get it out right to be able to talk it
out we'll call it and and usually that's
a slower process I wanted out now and so
it's easier to go punch a bag or punch a
person to get it out now what's crazy
I've found is in doing that it doesn't
go away now you think it does but in a
decade it didn't fix anything I got in
more trouble you know like it ended up
being more problems and so I started
realizing that if I can't ride so this
is my solution for a lot of stuff when
people wronged me or do things rolling
Society I've had a lot of them call them
black moments I've been you know called
a [__] while driving like three four
years ago you know I've been try to be
run off the road up and called like a
fro dick at the airport like weird stuff
right and it's in those moments that the
past and yes seriously was a weirdest
I've ever heard
but it called me like that essentially I
can't even make that comment make sense
but okay it's just odd right so these
moments like they happen and you think
like I probably freaked out but I've got
that spore in the moment I realize like
men it's like this person I'm dealing
with the way that I can not embrace that
and it's actually interesting concept
right don't embrace it this isn't it for
me it might have been from like Gandhi
he says you know when someone tries to
give you a present or a gift and you
don't take it they have to walk off with
it and it made so much sense to me it
was years ago like wearing that time and
I was kind of shifting I was like men so
when people say things do you think my
first thought is I'm not gonna take this
in like I'm just not gonna embrace what
you're trying to give me right now and
you got to walk off with and logic is
also I've never met an incredibly joyous
happy internal person who's trying to
make me feel bad
so I almost automatically flip to this
thing like what's going on this guy's
life that makes him feel like he needs
to say that to me right like what why
would they say why I get to this place
of pity and almost like almost a love
and compassion for the human trying to
hurt me they call it they call it hell
your haters nowadays right but for me I
found that that gives me a lot of peace
to progress in and not getting crazy
emotional and I can make logical
decisions that don't cause me to go in
some weird direction but I think for
most people they don't have that
capacity
so when it comes in it goes out as anger
it goes as aggression because it's all I
have I'm being given that I got to give
it back yeah man that Oh God so this
whole problem becomes so [__]
complicated because of the truth of the
human condition so going back to what
you said earlier it's like if someone is
making me hurt I'm gonna want to make
other people hurt and so you get this
where it feels right to take that
aggression and then put it outward and I
don't think I I think you're right I
think it's a high emotion and it's not
people engaging the intellect but and
here's where it really gets complicated
I think that emotions have a purpose so
when I put humans in I always try to get
people to understand you're having a
biological experience so what do I mean
by that you have a brain and your brain
is causing you to interpret the world in
certain ways it just it is and if you
understand the way that your brain works
if you understand the just sort of
inherent inclinations that it has
the easiest way to explain this is the
brain is you may not actually be living
in the matrix but your brain is creating
an artificial reality now how do I know
that because if your brain were trying
to present a reality to you it would
simply tell you at least visually it
would tell you the number of photons
reflecting off of a given surface now
none of us have that experience right it
is not a mathematical experience so our
brain goes ok I don't really care about
the objective reality I want to give you
enough meaning to interpret here to be
able to move through the world in a
meaningful way so we're having this
biological experience were evolved
creatures so we have tendencies that
have kept us alive in the past and so
when you have something like an emotion
like a propensity towards peace love or
violence then there's some reason that
that exists and when I think about for
me to go through my own physical
transformation I hate working out I
don't I do not find it interesting or
engaging in any way you talk about that
level of discomfort having to sit in it
yeah dude every rep [__] sucks and
you only make gains when you're in the
reps that really hurt it was like
Muhammad Ali said I don't even start
counting until it hurts you know so it's
like you have that so what I had to tap
into was imagining my wife being
attacked and saying am I really going to
accept that I'm not strong enough to
defend her and so that was the thing
that like kept me going getting in that
dark place that anger and so I was like
whoa anger actually really has a purpose
and if you have people submerge their
arm in a bucket of ice water and try to
see how long they'll leave it if you
tell them right when you want to pull it
out get angry yell scream obscenities
they can leave it in something like 30%
longer breadth and so it's like alright
there's there's real power in that anger
so you start putting all of this
together and it's like whoo it can be a
dangerous cocktail of the human
experience just funny you say that I
think back to my college days when I was
actually preparing to run for the NFL
the thing that I used to think of was
like at the other end of the 40
somebody's attacking my son at a 7th
time so think this is what you're
talking about literally was like a
driving force for me of like why I need
to go as fast as humanly possible it's
another level of motion like you said it
has a purpose and it can be used if
you're comfortable using it but most
people they they run away from it so
frequently it's like they just see that
the the joy and I hate that because at
the same time if you're seeking that joy
like you
relight the most of people's success for
telling you it's in the moments outside
the joy and but people are so free to
get it and they keep asking how come not
success I got my successful you're not
listening like you're just not listening
and you're not applying and so I don't
feel sorry for you at a certain point
like I need people when I talk to them
to like I'm trying to make you
uncomfortable I literally tell people
like my clients I'm like I'm trying to
stretch you it is it is really
interesting when people begin to like
really integrate so you talk about young
and the integration of the shadow and
finding a way to make yourself basically
a whole and understanding all of the
different parts and the pieces which i
think is is really critically important
and do you know who Coleman Hughes's I
don't was a thought oh dude look him up
he's really interesting super young and
he just had somebody on the show and I
forgive me for not remembering this
guy's name because I actually think it
was the the person he had on his show
that had this insight I can't remember
anyway the point was you've got Martin
Luther King with one ideology which is
using sort of this meta meta narrative
of religion unity bringing people
together sort of love and then you had
Malcolm X who was like well this [__]
right like there is there's this real
sort of visceral energy to rising up and
black power and they and they were
talking about how why the there's so
much energy to the rising up to the
anger and leaning into that and how that
can really animate a movement versus
something that's that's a more calm
Unity loving approach and like what do
you do
because Coleman Hughes himself is very
sort of intellectual he's very calm he
was saying like I don't know if I'm ever
going to be able to get people to catch
on fire with the way that I approach the
world because I don't have that sort of
visceral high energy quality and I think
this is part of what we see rippling
through society right now is is just
being animated by anger can be so
intoxicating like there's a like you
running the forty like me working out
there's an intoxication to rage yeah you
know it's funny is it it's oxidation of
rage because that's what we're commonly
used to and we almost what it's like
people you hear like addicted to your
struggle there's like this consistent
like
rage I have also with not being in a
place I want to be you mentioned earlier
like that wanting is what creates this
separation I feel like this eggs and I
think the the other perspective like
Martin Luther King we're talk about that
peace that's growth and most people in
the world to say blue-collar sadly the
growth isn't there like they're not
taught as kids that they're you know
their parents didn't teach them they're
not looking to read the books or not
peace isn't this saying that people are
seeking they just what am i used to I'm
used to being mad cuz I hate my job and
I hate my wife and my kids pissed me off
and then this thing I got in trouble
here and like I just I'm living in this
dark that's a cheat on my wife and cheat
on my husband like there's this constant
so you're almost like going to a place
they're already at and they're normally
at right so it's like they can grab onto
that and that pulls and they're like
yeah it's like that's probably where
they get used to that normalcy and it
feels more like you said it's more toxic
ating like when I get mad it's easy like
I it's harder to calm myself back down
to get to that place of joy and peace
again and so I think that unfortunately
word in society now with everything
going on it's like the this the media
help spark it up my brother is actually
the military and he does some things
that I can talk about but it's a he's
like we don't even realize that right
now other foreign powers are injecting
into our social timelines things
specifically that didn't happen here
to spark us all and divide us and
they're playing on the exact emotion
you're talking about they're playing on
that anger that inks that that fire that
people have to get them more fired up
because that divides people where's
peace brings people together and in we
aren't as a side that shows that we have
been used to divide we've been used to
that and that that negative emotion is
cared in that space whereas the peaceful
come together it's not commonly practice
or taught and in ways that our society
actually needs yeah one thing man I'd
love to know so you grew up at least
starting at what age 14 13 14 in an all
my family six that's when you moved in
Oh got it got it got it okay so walk me
through what that's like and I have a
very pointed question I want to ask and
I am super curious to hear your answer
so as you grew up did you feel that
you were an like a person behind enemy
lines did you view yourself as a black
man in a white family and like I need to
sort of see what's going on here or
was there a sense of integration or
something completely different yes so
that's interesting so there's there's
two sides I get to see two sides of
white America I guess so growing up I I
didn't have like in the family I was
loved
there was never I couldn't even point
out one singular moment whereas ever
like a joke or negative or anything of
pointing out that I was worse than I was
black
never once but then that's my media
family but then I had like my grandma my
grandmother grew up in Alabama Darrin
you know the segregation area like she I
she at one point I found out later like
told my family like hey don't let you
know his mom don't let her adopt a
little black kid it's above me right and
then you go to school man every day at
school I was only one of two kids that
were looked like me and my entire
elementary school I was even around
black culture until high school right so
I got to see the disparity between like
how I was seen at school I wasn't
accepted I wasn't the normalcy way you
know you got a restaurant it was eight
of us in the family and be like table
for seven no he's with us in the toilet
yeah the hoses would like scoff later
like okay like so yeah I saw it like so
it's kind of like I'm behind enemy lines
but I got one of the enemies guarding me
we'll call it it's kind of the best
we'll explain it but man I got to see
all of it I had family that was also you
know middle class of America I got to
see the white privilege and a
perspectives of it so I do carry a
vastly different view than most people
because of what I got to with my own
eyes see for all my life like even
though now I have aunts and uncles and
in conversations I'm having that are
very interesting to say the least
honestly cuz it's like I see I see the
different sides in a really weird way
that but I'll even talk about as funny
as I've talked about wife like at what
point do I share my racial and I might
views the world cuz I don't know if
either side would accept them to be
honest well that's interesting well tell
me more so so here's the best thing but
start on one side so I don't like that I
liked it the Covey's seek first to
understand then be understood so what I
want people to realize I understand that
the other side would call the other side
of white America my best friend the
worlds of white police officer if you
looked at him bald head like spiked eggs
yes
so people automatically assume that he's
like what are the bad guys he's not
right so I have that side have all my
family I have you know the dynamics and
so what happens is now the conversations
a
I see the plight of white America right
now in a sense that there's a lot of
guilt that is completely misunderstood
because it's like he's like I didn't do
anything and my wife I was like I didn't
do anything I don't know how to feel
guilty with this right now
I didn't I wasn't a slave driver I
didn't do X I didn't do a why I didn't
do Z and so I get the pain of like how
do you feel guilty for something you
didn't intentionally do it's like you
were born into it like when you're born
you don't know you're breathing air
you're just breathing air when you're
born into that world you don't realize
what it is and so there's that part of
that side but there's also you know the
aspect of of like they've been in the
conversations when there's no black
people around like they tell me about
how they go sometimes so like they kind
of also get at the same time so part of
me is like I I'm I'm onboarding a lot of
the emotion of my white friends and like
my wife and members of like trying to
really feel like how do we do the thing
that they're talking about like make
this better how do i how what do I say
the hardest part is like Tom I've got
people who I don't have golden hearts
but they're deathly afraid of saying
anything they want to support but like I
don't I don't want to say if I say you
know black lives matter to say what do
you know about it if I say all lives
matter than they say how dare you if I
say I support you show me your support
if you're doing something why weren't
you doing a ten years ago like so where
so it's like where do they get to the
point of like I want to speak out
because the system's not gonna be
changed by us we're not in control the
system and so it's like there's got to
be a perspective of I think black
America understanding the position that
white America is in yes they piss and be
angry we're up here we've got to get to
a logic at some point that says let me
see what they're going through so I can
actually give sound advice of how we can
move forwards right but then you also
have the flip side of black America
that's just pissed because of like how
did you not know how could you do this
and this has been going on we've been
saying something we were kneeling and
nobody listened and so I also get that
I've had my black moments manhunter
percent feel it and I get it and like
I'm not even gonna say that that you
know writing and everything was bad I
wouldn't do it I'm not gonna say it's
right I'm not gonna say it's wrong
because like you said it's their
expression of emotion I can't I can't
gauge or tell you what's right or wrong
I can't tell you I wouldn't do it
because I don't think it's gonna help me
personally but I'm not gonna condemn
them for doing it and it's also this
weird vicious cycle of the emotion that
they have it's placed in a position
right I don't think that we have this
thing that if somebody
up a building and said hey alright we're
doing this everybody would turn around
and walk away I don't know what that
solution is and I think society until we
had that solution we're all gonna be
emotional in spinning our wheels so when
I have conversations with my white
friends like well look you know this is
why we look at them like this because
they're out looting we look at the media
shows and look what they're doing I'm
like then I totally get that it gives me
a perspective like a cake makes me look
bad and if I'm in a situation later the
police officer they're looking at the
news in their head before they walk up
to my car it's like is a sucky situation
and it's this weird conversation I've
been having on both sides of we have to
really get to a point of stepping back
for a moment and see like what work do
we got to do and it's not the same work
like that's the scary part is it's kind
of like who imagine if like it's me my
wife for example we're back together
right at one point I had a woman in that
lived to be in my house and shield with
somebody else at her house another man I
didn't want to go into her house cuz
there's a guy had lived there and she's
I kind of kind of my house is a woman
that lived here both our houses aren't
where the other person wants to be but
we had to go get a new house which means
I had to get rid of some stuff do some
work I didn't want to do same vice-versa
and I think the work gonna have to do
Society is gonna be like like starting a
new house and that house that we build
is gonna be two parties doing stuff they
don't want to do because here's the
thing if I was building some of my
buddies and we're just doing our thing
like we're all gonna build this house
we're gonna live in if i sat down and
yelled at you because you had a nicer
house to keep building I'm gonna sit
here and drink a beer when that house is
built you don't have respect for me to
live in that house like it's like
alright but yeah the whole time we're
there you're gonna say well you didn't
build this I built this right so it's
like we've really got to get get to the
point of like yes black America is
pissed because of the situation what
took place but now how do you got to
wake up and like right we got to work we
got to work and white America is saying
we'll you know we didn't do it on
purpose whatever it's like okay now yet
but you got to work to help us with
these different situations and I don't
know what that work looks like but I do
know we gotta build a house together and
I do know we have to at some point like
in my marriage I had to forgive like I
had like I got back a woman who cheated
on me right like people don't get that I
had to grasp that it wasn't a malicious
thing it was just doing the best that
she could and so now it's like this
concept I think society is like people
have to grasp that white America
wasn't doing it all of them maliciously
but like we now gotta breathe and move
this up new and like last poignant
thought is the people who have created
this system that's it's a creative
system let me look back on your systemic
racism it's created you can't deny it's
on paper I've I've seen deeds that say
don't sell this house to a black family
right see any manners and so when you
look at that it's like the people who
created the system they're faceless like
it's worse it's like my white police
officer friend Tom you you're the one
that's the face of this like you're
getting the flak and it's like I didn't
do all this like I there's people above
me there in situations in places you'll
never see our faces but the lower level
white America will call who's not the
top tier 1% everything those are the
ones taking a brunt of the hit right now
and that I feel plight for too cuz like
look there's a lot of impoverished white
families also like I grew up in one you
know so it's not like everybody cuz
their whites winning and so it's this
kind of conversation of back and forth
of like man I feel the pain of white
America and I feel the pain of black
America but I'm not neutral in a sense
of like I don't know which side to
choose like I know the side that is like
this is how to change but the thing is
how do we get there
because I'm able to manage emotion I'm
like all right everybody's pissed and I
get that I'm 100% for at all how to fix
it now and fixing it it's not gonna
happen just by yelling all day long
fixes it'll be like alright I gotta get
up and I got a shoot to be a doctor or a
lawyer or to be a you know some other
job than a rapper or you know being a
pro athlete or bust right there's gotta
be at in between that society and black
America is like all right let's take
advantage of the opportunities but then
on the flip side like white America has
to give us a shot also like if the name
says Jake Juan and then there's John
like pull Jake Juan and also you know
like Blake look at his resume this
there's certain you know aspects of the
whole society that we're both gonna have
to give we're gonna have to do things
that we're not used to doing in order to
forget this this place that we want to
get to I think do what I love about what
you just said is this [__] is
complicated this [__] is me I'm located
and once we get out of the and and like
you I get it the the intoxication of
rage of certainty of just knowing that
there are in justices and focusing on
that
and not realizing what the end goal is
and then that to me like so I have
something in my business that I call the
physics of progress which is very simply
just how do you make progress in
anything and it's it is a really simple
formula in my estimation and it goes
like this what is your goal like crazy
specific I want to be the number one
linebacker for the New Orleans Saints
like whatever but like dude crazy
specific you what team by when how much
like a really specific goal then what is
the very specific problem that stands in
that way and then what is the what I
call a lever action so something that is
entirely binary either do it or you
don't
so when you think about what made you a
great football player it was I went in
and I worked out I lifted weights so I
could get stronger I did cardio so that
I could get faster
I studied tape so that I could
understand the game better like there
are very very specific things either you
did them or you didn't do them so it
wasn't you didn't say something like get
better work harder you said wake up at
5:00 a.m. and go until you can do you
know 20 reps of 225 pound benchpress
okay cool that's specific right I'm
going to lift every day and I'm going to
constantly try to you know push my max
and even these are vaguer than I would
like them if I really sat down talked
about them it is it is exactly things
you either do or do not do so and then
you have to know what data you're going
to look at to assess whether or not it
worked with your progress right and so
then you can move forward if any one of
those things is vacant know what data
you're looking at to assess whether or
not you're making progress or you throw
data out the window or you take emotion
or feeling as an example I heard
somebody say like and as long as whoever
is most outraged is considered most
right then we're never gonna make
progress because it's like what metric
are you going to steer by and if we can
get behind the goal the problem the test
right the lever action and then the
actual data that we're going to look at
this as we either are aren't making
progress then okay now we've got
specific [__] to fight about and that
then we can actually begin to make
progress this is exactly how I run the
business so that no one is just steering
by gut feel
because du gut feel can be a tragedy 30
years down the road and they know
philosophically she's [__] scary but
what you're saying about like hey we
have to build a house together that [__]
is interesting so you have literally
built a house with somebody that you had
a pretty pretty big beef with I would
say so how the [__] did you navigate
that how did you step back up to the
table and begin the conversation how did
you begin to forgive what did you have
to forgive like how did you guys move
forward yeah first his owner did Olivia
talked about Saul time versus ownership
on my end right cuz a lot of it I want
to blame we talked about hurt people
hurt people I was hurt I shamed her all
your fault and then I realized like when
I came out in a fella to define my
identity again I started this gym and I
was there 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and so
I realized that there was a point of
process like where the two of us got to
a point where she felt [__] and make a
choice that was half me I'd take my
ownership of the situation at hand even
if I liked it didn't like it it usually
came with some pain I had to own it
right and so that was the first part of
a second part of it was accepting that
she had done work like I think that's
the part of like people that you didn't
do enough work like it's not about like
the work that I think if you like did
you do enough work to accept that she
did the work that was hard for you to do
and when I realized that was part of it
now I was like alright now we're gonna
build something but I go into this
realizing beforehand I am NOT gonna like
a lot of this like I'm not it's just
it's just no way I'm gonna like all the
steps of doing this like getting back in
bed with her that was a hard part of the
beginning to be totally honest right
it's like there's someone that someone's
been in my wife like it's a big deal
honest like it's tough to sit with these
things but here's the biggest thing I
love what he talked about having this
metric from me he was my I call it North
Star I pictured myself at 6570 sitting
in my house in my rocking chair we'll
call it and I pictured her there with me
that was it that wasn't serious if
that's it so all the conversations with
my friends about why I shouldn't be with
her I had realized like is it getting me
closer or farther away from that that
rocking chair moment if there's certain
things I had to overcome like I knew
that jury that it wasn't gonna be like
it was gonna be this and you know to get
to that North Star and so for me I
accepted the long haul process of what
it's gonna take to get to that point
later on and so every single decision I
made I stepped in and I pulled the
darkness of like I hate this right now
but all right I'm gonna give her a
massage
like sounds odd right but it's like
these little things and the more you do
them I think what's cool about us as
humans we had that investment bias and
the beautiful part is the more I give to
something the more we want a return like
love is a verb as much as it's a feeling
if I give love I feel that love that's
why I'll change a baby's diaper and
they'll poop and scream and cry but I
still love them because I'm giving this
love right and so that was my process of
consistently mucking it and getting used
to it and engaging and then after a
while it becomes a pure joy like I go
through it five times over to get to
where I'm at again today but like the
part of the process of it was like man
where's my fault that I could truly own
and am I gonna show up every single day
and do work I really don't want to do
but I know that it's getting me closer
to this this North Star and the more we
do that the harder things you do and
makes the hard things easy and then it
becomes easier and becomes normalcy and
what's cool is everything else drowns
out because a lot of the reasons we
don't do things are things we have in
our head conversation they have what
someone gonna think of me and why they
were they gonna say it how do I look you
know this way like I got a lot of people
in my life that are friends that are
white that still won't accept that
there's something off and I don't think
that it's like then they don't see it I
think it's this eagle still the internal
things of like but if I accept that it's
off and I may feel bad because I might
have to admit that I'm wrong like it's
these all these thoughts and it's like
if you just chucked that away and say
hey where do you want to be 60 years
from now I think that's the thing is
when I think about the conversation that
I've been having I've been trying to
tell like the friends of mine were white
and they called me because I'm
apparently mr. black right now I tell
them look you're not really like you are
but you're not fighting for black lives
matter even if you say you are what
you're fighting for is a future that you
see where black lives matter and when
that becomes your North Star that's
gonna change the conversations in the
home it's an exchange of conversations
that work is gonna change how you see
people it's because it's like it can't
be anchored in as one individual thought
of like black lives matter cuz like you
said what does it look like right but if
I'm looking at a far shoot where it's
just like it's a bi yep black lives
matter like what do you have a
conversation now I'll do that icky mucky
back and forth up and down work that no
one wants to do that'll eventually get
us there as a society you
man it is when you talk about having to
do the work that's uncomfortable that
you don't want to do having the North
Star of something that matters to you
enough to fight for becomes so important
and I want to understand like as you
were going through this why was that
North Star so important for you was it
the kids like why not find somebody new
so I tried man you know believe me I
tried it I think it wasn't that I had to
go I was addicted it what thing it
wasn't for the kids it was when I here's
the true how happen we got to this point
where like we were separate like we were
complete separate like I'm done done
done with her and not even like want to
be around her and she invited me to this
to a trip a vacation in Costa Rica and
so what happened was I got to this point
in Costa Rica where we show up she had a
different room a different room and
she's like asked wanna go take a trip
cuz I wanted the kids out of town but I
know you can't be gone for three weeks
from the kids because I love my kids
like yeah so we get there and I hadn't
really talked to her about anything for
long I just been fighting with her back
and forth and the wax plant is I got to
meet someone for the first time that
I've known for 16 years like she had
done you could tell she did the work so
then what happened was I came home after
this trip I'm like I got to do this
whole new soul and was like man that's
the woman that I'm married the one that
I thought I'd married the one I wanted a
mare in like and I was I was actually
talking to another woman at the time and
before this date she's like hey I want
to try it again she ruined the date
obviously because of the back of my head
and so the thought was like man this
thing that I I've been saying I'm wanted
for so long we've been fighting about
for so long like it's now here in
present and I'm gonna if I'm gonna lean
into this I have to be able to say why
am I going to do this past the
conversations with my friends in my
family who have been there while she did
this to me right how am I gonna be able
to stand up in front of my world and say
look I'm taking this woman back who
cheated on me right hum and so all those
things were very very hard thoughts like
just the thought of it even now I'm like
man it sounds kind of odd how do you do
that it would have never happened if I
didn't know why I was doing it and not
the why that was a motivation why the
why is like where I'm trying to get to
why there's a thing as a difference as a
why that's like man I'm getting because
I don't want to be this but I was like
no I want to be sitting in this rocking
chair and that carried weight I think it
carry weight for me because of like my
you know kind of upbringing I didn't
have the unity of the family and I
wanted that family if anything for me
it's like my family unit is my anchor
because I didn't have a growing up and
so that that's what I wanted but in
doing that it wasn't sacrificing what I
wanted and you know and I still certain
things I want out of my marriage and
we've Baker and fight because we're
human right but the thing is we now
understand where we're trying to go and
why things take place and how they
happened and I think if you apply it to
our society now it's like you you now
are like we've wanted this for a long
time and I think now more than ever
I hid some weird I get chills thinking
about it we're in a society where I
think white America is finally in a
place where black Americans wanted us to
be for so long and it's like now we got
to create this Union where we can psyche
what does it look like because yes like
it's is the first I've had people like
I've seen videos of little girls
confronting their racist dads with a
camera hidden like that's that's what I
think that's where it's changes I'd be
thinking like the LT LGBTQ movement like
it was always fun to say you know
derogatory names to people who are in
that realm and it was like a playful
thing and after a while I got to the
point where if you say something in
public tongue somebody you don't even
know was gonna be on you don't do that
how dare you right it's never been that
way in my experience for racism its were
like if there's not even a gay person in
the room like if I'm in a room with no
gay people and somebody says something
someone saying something to him right or
now I think it's gonna be a society I'm
seeing a little bit of a glimpse of it
of like there might be no black people
in the room but if Uncle Bob Billy Joe
says something like Susan's gonna shut
him down and that for me was like oh
that's different and that's me saying
this is like my wife when she came back
to the table like all right she's coming
back she's saying short now let's work
on this together what's our North Star
and we could build this marriage
together I think society we were at a
place where we can really build a cool
marriage together
but we got like I thought I gotta
forgive and not forget but forgive so
that this person who do the work cuz
here was a thing what I believe gave it
a space of growing herself was I stopped
shaming her cuz I for a lot of years
it's all your fault how dare you mess
our marriage up but you ruined our
family and she got shame she was
drinking and boozing and partying and
everything and when I finally was like
man I
had a partner I forgive you she could
grow and she started blossoming into
amazing lover to death man like and I
think that's what we can do with society
it's like we've got to this point of
like okay cool and now society's moving
so I just am I said I'm like black
American don't mess this up like like
let's go to work now and we got a show
up and we got to take advantage that in
front of us we got to do more work like
I tell people a time but like why aren't
you more vocal about black American out
there I like to be honest I've been
trying to be a light like I know when I
walk into a room we walk in our
mastermind there's very few people that
look like me I'm well aware of it but I
don't show up and live in that space and
talk about it all day I just do the work
and it is harder for me there are places
I don't get to go and conversations I
don't get to have and you know certain
aspects of what I'm able to do clients I
get to bring on and don't bring on
because of how I look I'm aware of it
but I just work harder and I do it
without a disdain because of the
position I'm like if I'm gonna play the
game and know the rules I must be better
than you football
say wait I'm gonna get better than you
and so I've been getting better and
better and better and so yeah I'm in a
position where like I can keep growing
and so I'm now I'm like when I want to
fight the fight by climbing so I can
show these kids like you don't just got
to be an athlete and that to be
successful I did that and it was
short-lived but now I'm doing this like
so five little ways and so if I can be a
beacon and talk about like a yeah you're
gonna have to work harder than white
America but do the work it's worth it
like and they're gonna give you a shot a
little bit more now and the game's
changed like we got to show up and do
our work we can't be the person sitting
there watch them build the house and
then get to the point of like right I'm
living here too like it's not gonna work
that way man speaking of like the sort
of come up and and how you think about
the coming together having kids has got
to feel there's got to be a lot of
weight to like how do I help them
navigate this that when they're you know
sort of moving into the house that they
are building a house and and they're
building something that matters or maybe
the better way to think of it is they
have a North Star that makes sense and
and all I'll bring it back to the way I
think about the world where they have
just like a super clearly defined goal
and they know what they're trying to do
one thing that I've always struggled
with with kids and I I see a lot in your
story is when you have to come up hard
there there is a sin
of Drive that's there and one of the
reasons I didn't have kids was I was
worried they would grow up really soft
because I really really really really
and I learned this with the kid that I
Big Brother four who came up [__]
hard was that I just want to make
everything easy for him I wanted him to
have a taste of beautiful things and
nice things and to know that somebody
loved him and I just thought who liked
the better path is to teach people to
struggle well so how do you how do you
think about that with your kids like how
do you how do you give them the the
energy to push when things get hard when
they've been loved and trust me when I
say I am NOT saying neglect kids or give
them a hard time like that I'm just
saying it's [__] hard when when there
isn't something to struggle against so
how do you how do you love them and
still hold them accountable yeah man I
know this statement that people always
ask like how do you do what I say you
know a smooth sea makes not a skilled
sailor like there's this concept to me
of like men I hated at the time all the
stuff I went through but now dude
nothing knocked me over time it's a
weirdness to Who I am as a human there
are very few things that get this point
my life I don't know what would knock me
over like I just I'm able to navigate it
buts because of what I went through as a
kid worse like the stuff that would be
like a blip on my radar shut some adults
down like how does that oh and I have to
have compassion go back and pick him up
now my kids I realize like I can't rob
them of their hardships I can't do it
like my son was getting picked on at
school a few years back and like my wife
hopped in a car and drove down there to
like save him on the street I'm like no
let him get beat up and then figure out
how to navigate that like she's like
what do you mean I'm like he need he
needs to figure this world out because
at 18 he's gone and I'm not gonna be
there in the Taco Bell when somebody
starts punking amber touching his
girlfriend you're like I'm not gonna be
that he's gotta figure these things out
or like my hobby they're what yeah what
did you say to him
like did you tell him hey somebody
punches you touches your girl whatever
you punch him in the mouth oh hell yes
I'm a guy I'm not a proponent of you
don't start the fight but if somebody if
somebody touches you they physically put
their hands on you you finish that fight
in the next 20 right then and there like
it's just my thought
on life and it's not that I because
people will do it they'll test you in if
they get you this time they'll get you
tomorrow and the next day and now you
become fun for them to figure out how to
be a punching bag so I'm like not I'm
not like if somebody does it you figure
it out and he did like he ended up like
the next like I think it happened the
next week and the end of the rest on the
kid down and got in trouble and I bought
him ice cream like it's totally cool but
that's the perspective like so I need
them to understand that there is a
celebration and showing up for yourself
and fighting and navigating the hard
parts but a minute goes like doing the
dishes every day clean the dog poop up
like I can't find some in the garage
go open your eyes and find it and it's
not that I'm lazy but like I'm
consciously thinking about every moment
on behalf of my children and and how are
they gonna be able to problem-solve
and navigate stuff and not shut down cuz
the problem is not only is it a problem
to get older and not have had hardships
but you have more responsibilities as an
adult so when you can't stand up you
lose more as a kid it's like I'm a kid
so I get old bad great as an adult it's
like you get messed up and like you
can't compose yourself you lose your
family and your wife you're drinking you
know cuz you have access and money and
time like way more problems occur so I
need my kids to have a bad childhood in
a sense of like the bad moments but I
need them to have like good teaching for
me so like I'll guide you I'm gonna
teach you what happens or how to
navigate this but I need you to go
through it and hate it I need you to get
comfortable in that difficulty cuz my
wife and I talk about this all the time
my youngest son has ADHD same as I had
bad little bounce off the wall kid she's
like you're fine he's gonna be fine
I'm like yeah the problem is like I had
people whooping me when I would do dumb
stuff like I'm not saying it was good
but it taught me how to like control
myself more worse for him like he is a
maniac in if he's if he doesn't have
that hardship she's like well you played
football you had that energy I'm like
yeah but I had a [__] man like I was
fighting for more than just the football
jersey this kid knows it if he has a bad
game he gets to go home and get a
Slurpee it's a different it's a
different thing he's driving for us
which scares me so like I do me on it's
like I'm purposely harder on my youngest
one and I'm doing it because I love him
and he doesn't get it yet but like I'm
tougher on him I make him do stuff I
need him to get used to the discomfort
in like control control
control because I tell him I tell most
all the time I have a superpower as does
he as I'm sure you have the same when
you just you probably at a scatterbrain
and it just you hone it in you just go
right it's because that kind of
personality when you make it to
adulthood with this right skill sets and
right situations you blossom like I've
told them at ten years old you're gonna
be more successful than I ever was to be
totally honest we gotta get you to a
place in time where you can access that
and utilize it but if you get in trouble
cuz you can't get through high school or
you get arrested for something stupid
it's all gone on so let's get you there
and then Brahma let you out of the gates
so that's kind of where it but I need
the kids to understand I need parents
were listed understand stop robbing your
kids that are hardships if anything give
them more and be a great teacher who
dude the power of the family is crazy
so at the quest we had a thousand
employees that grew up really [__]
hard dude hard like you know hard and I
thought I knew hard until I met these
kids and I was like holy [__] like the
way that they think about the world like
I remember one kid saying I have
actually been told to my face by my
mother the world doesn't want people
like you to succeed hmm and I was like
what like it is
that's so unintentional II obviously but
it's so handicapping to say don't extend
yourself like that don't try for that
that's that's beyond you people don't
want us this to succeed and so that
became my obsession is how do you get
people to go into and I was gonna say to
step to the starting line but that
really isn't where I want people how do
you get them to go into the gym and be
like all right [__] you think
you're gonna hold me back like I'm gonna
[__] blow the roof off this [__] it's
crazy the the literacy rates some oh god
here's I'm I'm I am not the wise person
that's going to see us through I have
[__] all for wisdom when it comes to
race but like clearly with all this
happening like I'm [__] diving in and
trying to like really actually get my
bearings which would say that again
what you say it has a definite
psychology to it I'm tracking you a
hundred percent right now so you have it
was like a hundred years after slavery
the literacy rates at a time where the
America
was trying to hold black people back
like I think that that's pretty
self-evident so but the literacy rates
were astronomical because people were
like yo I didn't get it I'm gonna make
sure my [__] kids get it and I think
it was something like oh god I remember
the day is that like this is terrible
but there was roughly a hundred years
after slavery it was like the kids
african-american kids growing up in a
single-parent household was like 20% and
now it's like 70% so it's like [__] if
if it is true that having the family
unit is so critical and I'm triggering
off of all the things you just said all
the things I hear you talking about
teaching your kids and I'm like Jesus if
you only have half of that equation
doesn't mean that people aren't killing
it but I'd much rather be in a space
where I've got multiple people giving me
rad [__] advice and pushing me
forward so it is so thinking about sort
of those second and third-order
consequences of how do we really get
people that are able to develop those
skills that they're not getting stupid
messages that that stop them from even
beginning the pursuit of personal
greatness yeah it said it's funny the
you know the book good a great right
yeah better before yeah man yeah it's
yeah I think one of the first ones it's
like filling here a burden of the world
so what you just talked about is
actually the fitting of it-- I think and
if people ask me like what's your
perspective on you know grow up in a
white family and I think one of the
benefits to it was that I wasn't
handicapped with the conversation that
came from an old black grandma or
grandpa who dealt with that experience
and they would say like you're saying
you know you're not supposed to do well
this I just want to see you do well
so there's always that thought of like
I'm a burden from the get-go and so like
that wasn't part of of my upbringing I
think that was an asset to me because I
just saw it as I got to work and I got a
grind but but what you're talking about
societally we have this conversation
running in and I don't this you go
conspiracy or non conspiracy but if you
look at like where drugs were you know
kind of introduced so that the inner
cities in and you know how families were
torn apart like the jailing system and
so it's like there was almost like a
like you say the numbers show at some
point something happened that made the
family fall apart because a united front
is difficult to stop and I think we even
like heard about the black wall street
1921 when all of a sudden these whites
came in and just did
straight a city killed three thousand
people and no one ever been charged like
there was a progression like this is in
Tulsa Oklahoma and it was out of the
record books and nobody put in history
books like 96 like it happened and
there's like there was a systematic
piece I think as well to like don't let
them come together because United look
at they could do and so we are in a
situation where now that's been so
prevalent and I think the conversation
has to come back like you're talking
about if there is possibility it exists
it may not be easy for Tam but it exists
you're gonna work towards something and
you're probably gonna die early running
around the streets with your buddies
like how about we as opposed to making
fun of the kid who's reading a book how
about we go in and push that kid to go
forward but the problem is it's like
you're trying to we're gonna have to
carve a new path in a rock like new
Grand Canyon because that's that's the
hard part is how do you change the
structure in a society where it's like
I'm still you know in a gang and I don't
leave the gang unless I get jumped in
and jumped out or killed right or or
Grandma and Grandpa like I don't want to
do better than Rick and feel bad because
I go get this job at this one place and
they're you know making me feel bad and
it's almost in some size also in the
black culture it's like look at how
ghetto I am it's a sensationalizing of
the negative aspect of the culture and
so that you have all these different
dynamics going on and it's gonna be a
lot to pull them to the starting line to
say alright here's what we got to go to
work and go and and I think the hard
thing that I'm looking at is that
doesn't happen without a good leader and
I don't know that that black America has
a leader or except a leader that's the
problem I think I don't know the leader
is like I'm put a lot of weight in my
head right now in Kaepernick and not
because he's some phenomenal you know
leader and black activists but he's a
guy that society at a level above the
ghettos will call it as seeing and
accepting and he could talk but he's
also accepted because it was an athlete
to the develop over like these these
youths want to be because everybody else
that comes out like who are even myself
including our pipe I couldn't be a voice
in that capacity I'm not that level but
it's either like you got the guys who
come out and speak to black America and
say look you're the ones messing up your
cause and crimes or doing other stuff
which it's difficult when it's
systemized that way like how they not
gonna be criminals to an extent but like
they get called Uncle Tom's they don't
get listened to anymore they can't leave
you can't believe it without followers
and so it's like America and the black
America
to find a leader who they will follow
who was going in the right direction and
the problem is is the right direction is
to do work to accept to take heed to
listen and and only things that we don't
want to own - about ourselves they get
better
and you're not gonna do that unless you
have a leader that they'll follow and I
don't know who that is right now that's
that think that's that the biggest thing
that scares me is like we got
subtraction we can move but who are we
following because social media makes it
worse now you get a million voices and
I'm a proponent of like everybody has a
voice but I don't know if everybody
needs to be talking like some people
need to just sit down and be quiet and
listen myself included it many times and
I think that's how progress takes place
but I don't I don't know who that person
is just yet I think you're right that is
well said leaders are worth their
[__] weight in gold
I am very eager for somebody to step to
the plate that has deep wisdom here the
person that I mourn the loss of as just
sort of a a name I've read in a book but
is Nelson Mandela so reading long walk
to freedom dude have you read that [__]
that nuts glad you're gonna love it so
much Mandela in prison for 27 years he
starts getting very militant young black
men coming into the prison system who
are chastising him for not being violent
enough and he said let me be clear
violence is an option and I do keep that
in my back pocket if it becomes
necessary I will use it again this is me
and interpreting so if I'm
misrepresenting something I'm very open
to that but this is how it sounded to me
so I'm going to come out of all this
because you give up your humanity when
you oppress somebody so it was like you
sang with that gift right you try to
give it they don't take it you sought to
keep it there by oppressing somebody
else you forfeit something forget
whatever economic value you may get out
of it you're giving up some of your
humanity and I just a [__] that's so
intense so I end up writing this comic
called neon future of course I abstract
it so it's about essentially people with
cyborgs versus authentic humans and so
but dealing with that notion of you've
got one group of people trying to
oppress the other you've got the other
group we're inside that group they want
to just now reappraise because they're
they're technologically so much more
advanced of course they could
but then you have this one guy who's
like no no no hold on there's got to be
this third way so like that to me is
sort of a beacon of hope that I cling to
in all of this like it men that's a good
perspective because that's that's Rhett
now you know it's literally it's odd
that these are the things these are like
weird dark times but that's it the only
one we're gonna get forward somewhere
it's to unify it's literally the only
way and that and unity is not easy it's
work on both sides we do that we're
gonna be great preach all right brother
I will let you go thank you so much for
this man really cool to connect I look
forward to actually being able to share
physical space with you again at some
point which would be incredible love
yeah come in I'm always down there like
an LM like I stopped by Tom spot I never
do my apologies no man no apologies
necessary but definitely the next time
when covetous is done we will get
together and hang out be awesome cool
helped me admit all right everybody if
you haven't already figured out who
Anthony Trucks is get on it you will
love it he puts out amazing amazing
content that I think will really push
you forward in your own life and
speaking of things that will push you
forward in your own life if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe here and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care Muhammad Ali said I'm the
greatest but you never want a
championship without Angelo Dundee and
Michael Jordan ever won a championship
without Phil Jackson so you've got to
have someone that can see something in
you that you can't see